[Music]
people can come
to the right conclusions for the wrong
reasons
i am not christian and i'm not a
conservative
and i have very little sympathy for the
christian
conservative worldview however
for example i am morally opposed to
gambling
don't do it i think everyone
should quit gambling i think ideally we
should make
gambling illegal who's with me who
agrees with me
apparently only christian conservatives
in fact only a tiny minority
of the most conservative christians seem
to share my view that gambling
is a bad thing that it's a bad thing for
us as individuals
and it's a bad thing for society as a
whole now how did those christian
conservatives
arrive at this conclusion their
reasoning may indeed be bad and faulty
and wrong it may be
based on supernatural assumptions about
the world
that i don't sympathize with in any way
however
when you're in a situation of debating
politics with christian conservatives or
politics with say
left-wing extremists socialists and
communists
it's important to keep in mind that
you're not just debating
their assumptions you're not just
debating the validity or invalidity of
their reasoning
you're debating whether or not they
might be right
even if at random about a few
conclusions here and there
that they may have come to thinking
their way forward
from a false premise now this video
is not about gambling but if we were
going to discuss gambling in a sincere
constructive productive way obviously
we couldn't just focus on
the worst case scenario we couldn't
just discuss examples of
catastrophes of people's lives being
ruined of
the terrible things that could happen to
some minority of people through gambling
and the problem with basing your
reasoning
on these sorts of catastrophic examples
isn't just that they're a minority of
all cases
the problem really is that they're
catastrophic in nature
if you interview people who have
committed murder
and ended up in prison and asked them
didn't you realize didn't you know that
by committing this crime you could spend
the rest of your life in jail
they very often say back to you yes they
did know that
but they thought that they would be an
exception they thought that they would
get away with murder they thought that
it wouldn't happen to them
if you interview people who have become
drug addicts and you asked them
weren't you aware that using this
particular drug or trying this
particular drug could lead to your
addiction could lead to your poverty
could lead to your homelessness or your
imprisonment they will very often say
back to you yes
they were aware but they thought that
they would be the exception they thought
that it wouldn't
happen to them so the focus on
catastrophic worst case scenarios
it's problematic and misleading in many
different ways
not just because it fails to represent
the majority of all cases
but because we have this powerful human
tendency to think of ourselves as an
exception
to every rule i'm axel who are you i am
brookly adams
brooke adams that's me awesome how old
are you
you look so young i am i'm you know i'm
not quite as young as i look i was
really you mean you're like 19
no close
close the stage name she used was
brookly adams
and as you heard there alluded to
briefly
many of the films she appeared in
insinuated that she was just 18 or 19
years old
but in fact she was 23 or 24
she was homeschooled by christian
fundamentalists
raised in what i would consider an
insanely
religious family she was married at age
19.
the biography of her life that is most
commonly found on the internet
states that she studied biochemistry at
the university of southern california
that she got an internship with the
pfizer corporation
and she briefly had a career in
infectious disease research that
included traveling to africa
this may or may not be an exaggeration
in her accounts of her own life she
repeatedly describes herself
as having studied at a christian college
and she tends to exaggerate the extent
to which the quality of her education
was
incredibly poor these two accounts
may be reconcilable i've certainly met
people who had university degrees in the
united states of america
who nevertheless were incredibly poorly
educated
for several years she was one of the
most famous
and the most highly paid performers in
the adult entertainment industry
appearing notably on the cover of
hustler magazine by her own account she
became an alcoholic
a cocaine addict and was deeply
traumatized by her experience
however this is not a catastrophic
worst case example but at the time that
i was in the industry
there was a problem with people faking
their tests and there was an hiv
outbreak
so that scared me and that made me upset
and so i took a little break and i
stepped back
from the industry for a few weeks i
guess it was
and my agent called me and let me know
that he had an opportunity for me
and the opportunity was
to go be the escort of the prince
for a week and it was a very very
large sum of money and i was doing a lot
of drugs at this point and i was
drinking
heavily and i decided that this is a
super good idea
for my life and so i went
i was supposed to be there for five days
um
and a strange turn of events that to
this day is still kind of a mystery to
me
i was like i said drinking a lot um
i got over there and he took a real
shine to me
and he asked me to stay there with him
and i told him
no it was christmas time and i had to
get back home
before christmas because i didn't want
to tell my parents
that i was being a hooker you know
and so i didn't want to share that with
them
so i um
i told him no and i don't think the
prince
has ever been told nobody anybody before
and so he got really mad
and he kidnapped me and i
stayed there for a little over two weeks
and the things that happened while i was
there
have left physical and emotional scars
on my
body that i will never get rid of and
um in some ways i don't know
exactly how i lived through it but you
do
and then i came home and i was
understandably a little tweaked in the
head
and so i did more cocaine and more drugs
because that seems like a really good
idea
and did more drinking and um
by that point i knew i wanted to leave
the industry but i didn't know how i
didn't know what i was going to do
um so i just kept going to la and kept
shooting scenes until
one day i overdosed on cocaine
it's very easy to simplify the problem
and to propose its solution merely in
terms of the age
of the participants to say well it
wouldn't be so bad
if only these women weren't 18 years old
but had a minimum age of 19 or 20 or 21.
this particular young woman her whole
career
took place when she was 23 and 24
and she wasn't ignorant of how the
industry works
she actually is an extraordinary example
of someone who became involved in the
industry
very gradually by first having a job
behind the camera
you want to become a big porn star oh
you know
while that's tempting um i'm actually
i'm considering
working on perhaps more of a business
perhaps in the porn industry we'll see
really she was a production assistant in
the hardcore pornography industry
she didn't just see how the business
worked on
set she saw camera work and performers
and all those things going on
but she also learned about all the steps
and stages involved
she learned about how the business side
of things worked the
contracts and the aids tests
every stage what goes into it and she
also understood how to bargain for
her own position like not just how to
make more money
out of uh performing a particular scene
or
a particular sex act she understood very
well how to avoid
doing things she did not want to do how
to complain who she could complain to
who was working on her side
he wasn't there were even labor unions
for this stuff in california
she understood how the labor unions
worked she understood
how the whole business worked because of
the peculiar path she took
to being involved with it herself
this is not a case in which we can say
she became
involved in the industry blind
or ignorant as to how it worked and what
was going on on the contrary
she had a remarkable education in
precisely
how this industry worked before she took
the step
from being behind the camera to being
in front of the camera and if a
university education accounts for
anything in this world
we can just note again that in general
this is someone
who would be considered highly educated
not only that she had credentials
and a career in the sciences at least on
paper
and i pulled out a compact and my lips
were completely blue
i was cyanotic and that was the
beginning
of the heart attack that i had i
realized at that point that my heart was
stopping um
because i couldn't take a deep breath
anymore and man
heart attacks hurt let me tell you and
um
i realized that my obituary was going to
be something to the effect of like
she had a lot of promise and then she
went into porn and did some drugs and
then died
alone in the valley by herself and
um that's not how i wanted to go out
that's not what i wanted my story to be
i
haven't asked my multiple people if i
could go back
and do it all over again would i not be
in porn would i not
do those things and the thing is
i would skip the heart attack but
everything else i would still experience
because it made me a different person
and it made me compassionate and kind
and loving to people that i never would
have met
the smartest women i have ever met in my
life
are hookers and [ __ ] all of them this
is not
the worst case scenario she began
her career with extraordinary advantages
over other young women
and she ended her career with
extraordinary advantages
also during the brief period in which
she was at the peak
of her career she was in the privileged
class
of the most famous the most celebrated
the most highly paid women in the
industry
it also deserves to be said the industry
itself
was at its pinnacle then before it was
so to speak
destroyed by the internet before
she became an actress she had a
bachelor's degree in the sciences
after her dramatic departure from the
industry she got a master's degree
in cognitive science however what career
if any she could now have is difficult
to imagine the husband whom she married
at age 19 is in fact still her husband
to this day
they were estranged for a short time
and there are inconsistencies if you
compare
the various interviews she's provided
and this autobiographical account
it does seem that she likes to lie about
the extent to which she was separated
from her husband during her years
producing pornography
the timeline doesn't quite add up but
fair enough it's remarkable that she has
managed to keep that
marriage together she is now a mother
raising at least one child although
obviously
she overcame her cocaine addiction it is
rather depressing to note
that she never quite could overcome the
faith
of christianity i know that many people
in the audience
will be eager to believe that this type
of career
must have scarifying life-changing
psychological consequences it's our
eagerness to believe that that i would
just
pause to question for a moment we have
an innate sense of justice
that makes us want to cry out that
there's no such thing as a free lunch
that you can't possibly enjoy the fame
acclaim
and wealth of having appeared on the
cover of
hustler magazine and so on and so forth
without in some sense thereafter
paying the price and this is really a
very cruel and childish way of thinking
about the world
the truth is not everyone deals with the
same consequences although this
particular woman
has suffered psychologically although
for her
there have been emotional consequences
of this kind
that doesn't mean we can generalize
about it that doesn't mean we can write
this up as an
abstract rule on the chalkboard like a
law of physics
on the contrary it remains something
very very difficult
to generalize about as an example of the
trauma
or the psychological damage that she
still lives with
as a consequence of her career she
mentions
that she cannot allow her sexual partner
she can't allow her husband presumably
to touch her face
or hair in any way during sex
if he does even accidentally she will
suddenly collapse onto the ground
weeping crawled into a ball
she also says interestingly
she knows why she says
provocatively perhaps that with sexual
problems of this kind
she knows exactly what it is that she's
remembering
although it's very difficult for her to
talk about she says
she knows precisely why that is
[Music]